README.md, before:

# Pigging Operations History and Schedule
Thinkful fullstack capstone project, a Pipeline Pigging Operations History and Schedule app, which allows pigging activities to be historized and scheduled.

## Introduction

The Pigging Report is an Excel workbook I created which contains several different types of data: the pigging histories of the pipelines, the pigging schedule, the operators' daily field reports, and the pipeline debris trending reports. It also contains information about each pipeline, such as pipe size, valve types, and acceptable pigs. This report is very time-consuming to manage, modify, and update as all of the work of managing it is done maually -- whether I am copy/pasting information from 6 different daily field reports into the master workbook or copy/paste/clear contents/resetting formulas each month to create a new record. The process for adding new pipelines to the report is clumsy and fractionated, requiring data, links, and formulas to be updated in many places each time a pipeline is added to the report.

The pigging report and schedule is completed in three parts every day:

Part 1: Individual Daily Reports (in Excel format) are completed by Pipeline Operators and sent to me via email.

Part 2: Every morning, the Daily Reports are compiled into one master Daily Report for that date, which is stored as a page in the Pigging History workbook.

Part 3: The Pigging Schedule is created and sent out each day via email to a mailing list which includes Production Foremen, Managers, and Contractors.

Although the Pigging Report has evolved and become more user-friendly over the years, it is still more frenemy than friend.

This application will replace the current Pigging Report, helping our team be more effficient by saving time managing the report. This application will also stabilize the data by reducing the number of times the data is handled (by eliminating the copy/paste cycle), by standardizing data input (e.g. using timestamps instead of manually typing the date or AM/PM), and by making it easier to identify missing information.


## User Stories

This application will be utilized by four different types of users: Pipeline Operators,  Pipeline Foremen, Production Foremen, and Managers.

* As a User, I want to login so that I can use the application.

* As a User, I want to reset my password if I have forgotten it so that I can log in to the application.

* As a User, I want to create an account so that I can use the application.

* As a User, I want to view and update my account information so that I can change my password.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to input my daily pigging activities so that I can track my work on the pipelines.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to record pigging exceptions (times when a pig was not launched on schedule) so that the launch schedule will remain up-to-date.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to record notes about my location observations so that other operators can be aware of hazards.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to view the pigging schedule so that I can plan my field route.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to view the previous launch details so that I can understand why pigs are overdue.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view daily pigging schedules so that I can prioritize the tasks of the operators.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view the details of the previous launch so the I can understand why pigs are overdue.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view the debris reports so that I can adjust the pigging frequencies if necessary.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to trend pigging activity so that I can track costs and plan spending.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view pigging history so that I can identify missing launch and receive data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to be able to update the pigging history so that I can correct mistakes.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to add pipelines to the application so that I can add them to the pigging schedule.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to update pipelines information so that I can correct mistakes and keep the data current.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to remove inactive pipelines from the pigging schedule so that I do not mistakenly send an operator to pig an inactive pipeline.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to assign user roles so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to deactivate users so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to change user roles so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Production Foreman, I want to view the pigging schedule so that I can plan field operations around the scheduled pigging activities.

* As a Manager, I want to view the debris reports so that I can remain informed about my department.

## Business items (database structure)

* user
    * role (Pipeline Operators,  Pipeline Foremen, Production Foremen, and Managers)
    * email (email)
    * password (password)
    * first name (string)
    * last name (string)
    * active (boolean) (default value = true)

* report centers
    * name (string)
    * number (integer)

* systems
    * name (string)

* pipeline
    * report center name (string)
    * report center number (integer)
    * name of the system (string)
    * name of the pipeline (string)
    * launcher site name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * size of pipeline (string)
    * type of product (string)
    * type/name of acceptable pigs (string)
    * closure information (string)
    * pigging frequency (string)
    * date added, updated, or removed (timestamp)
    * active (boolean)

* pigs
    * types/name (string)
    * size (string)

* pigging activities
    * pipeline name (string)
    * exception (string)
    * asigned user email (email)
    * notes (string)
    * launch timestamp (timestamp)
    * receive timestamp (timestamp)
    * launcher site name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * debris found at the receiver site (string)

* debris collected from the pipeline
    * pipeline name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * type (string)
    * weight in pounds (integer)



## Functionality

The app's functionality includes the following abilities:

- login with a username and password
- view daily pigging schedule
- enter and submit daily pigging activities
- make notes about launch and receive exceptions
- view pipeline pigging history
- add new pipelines to the history and to the schedule
- add new users
- remove users
- modify and correct the pigging history
- create debris reports which trend type and amount of debris collected within specific timeframes

## Wireframes
![Wireframe _User Login](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_login.png)

![Wireframe _Reset Password](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_reset_password.png)

![Wireframe _Create Account](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_create_account.png)

![Wireframe _Account Info](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_account_info.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Input Pigging](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_input_pigging.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_operator_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Previous Launch ](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_operator_prev_launch.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Admin Menu](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_admin_menu.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Previous Launch](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_prev_launch.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Debris Reports](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_debris_reports.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging Activity](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_activity.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging History](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_history.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update History](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_history.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Add Pipeline](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_add_pipeline.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update Pipeline](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_pipeline.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Add User](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_add_user.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update User](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_user.png)

![Wireframe _View Only Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_viewonly_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _View Only Debris Reports](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_viewonly_debris_reports.png)

Commit message:

added Notes and Future Fixes to Readme file; last commit before project submission

README.md, after:

# Pigging Operations History and Schedule
Thinkful fullstack capstone project, a Pipeline Pigging Operations History and Schedule app, which allows pigging activities to be historized and scheduled.

## Introduction

When I worked for a company in the oil and gas industry, I created a pigging report. The Pigging Report is an Excel workbook I created which contains several different types of data: the pigging histories of the pipelines, the pigging schedule, the operators' daily field reports, and the pipeline debris trending reports. It also contains information about each pipeline, such as pipe size, valve types, and acceptable pigs. This report is very time-consuming to manage, modify, and update as all of the work of managing it is done maually -- whether I was copy/pasting information from 6 different daily field reports into the master workbook or copy/paste/clear contents/resetting formulas each month to create a new record. The process for adding new pipelines to the report is clumsy and fractionated, requiring data, links, and formulas to be updated in many places each time a pipeline is added to the report.

The pigging report and schedule is completed in three parts every day:

Part 1: Individual Daily Reports (in Excel format) are completed by Pipeline Operators and sent to me via email.

Part 2: Every morning, the Daily Reports are compiled into one master Daily Report for that date, which is stored as a page in the Pigging History workbook.

Part 3: The Pigging Schedule is created and sent out each day via email to a mailing list which includes Production Foremen, Managers, and Contractors.

Although the Pigging Report had evolved and become more user-friendly over the years, by the time I left, it was still more frenemy than friend.

This application will replace the current Pigging Report, helping teams be more effficient by saving time managing their report. This application will also stabilize the data by reducing the number of times the data is handled (by eliminating the copy/paste cycle), and by standardizing data input (e.g. using timestamps instead of manually typing the date or AM/PM).


## User Stories

This application will be utilized by four different types of users: Pipeline Operators,  Pipeline Foremen, Production Foremen, and Managers.

* As a User, I want to login so that I can use the application.

* As a User, I want to reset my password if I have forgotten it so that I can log in to the application.

* As a User, I want to create an account so that I can use the application.

* As a User, I want to view and update my account information so that I can change my password.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to input my daily pigging activities so that I can track my work on the pipelines.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to record pigging exceptions (times when a pig was not launched on schedule) so that the launch schedule will remain up-to-date.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to record notes about my location observations so that other operators can be aware of hazards.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to view the pigging schedule so that I can plan my field route.

* As a Pipeline Operator, I want to view the previous launch details so that I can understand why pigs are overdue.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view daily pigging schedules so that I can prioritize the tasks of the operators.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view the details of the previous launch so the I can understand why pigs are overdue.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view the debris reports so that I can adjust the pigging frequencies if necessary.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to trend pigging activity so that I can track costs and plan spending.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to view pigging history so that I can identify missing launch and receive data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to be able to update the pigging history so that I can correct mistakes.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to add pipelines to the application so that I can add them to the pigging schedule.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to update pipelines information so that I can correct mistakes and keep the data current.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to remove inactive pipelines from the pigging schedule so that I do not mistakenly send an operator to pig an inactive pipeline.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to assign user roles so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to deactivate users so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Pipeline Foreman, I want to change user roles so that I can control access to the pigging data.

* As a Production Foreman, I want to view the pigging schedule so that I can plan field operations around the scheduled pigging activities.

* As a Manager, I want to view the debris reports so that I can remain informed about my department.

## Business items (database structure)

* user
    * role (Pipeline Operators,  Pipeline Foremen, Production Foremen, and Managers)
    * email (email)
    * password (password)
    * first name (string)
    * last name (string)
    * active (boolean) (default value = true)

* report centers
    * name (string)
    * number (integer)

* systems
    * name (string)

* pipeline
    * report center name (string)
    * report center number (integer)
    * name of the system (string)
    * name of the pipeline (string)
    * launcher site name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * size of pipeline (string)
    * type of product (string)
    * type/name of acceptable pigs (string)
    * closure information (string)
    * pigging frequency (string)
    * date added, updated, or removed (timestamp)
    * active (boolean)

* pigs
    * types/name (string)
    * size (string)

* pigging activities
    * pipeline name (string)
    * exception (string)
    * asigned user email (email)
    * notes (string)
    * launch timestamp (timestamp)
    * receive timestamp (timestamp)
    * launcher site name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * debris found at the receiver site (string)

* debris collected from the pipeline
    * pipeline name (string)
    * receiver site name (string)
    * type (string)
    * weight in pounds (integer)



## Functionality

The app's functionality includes the following abilities:

- login with a username and password
- view daily pigging schedule
- enter and submit daily pigging activities
- make notes about launch and receive exceptions
- view pipeline pigging history
- add new pipelines to the history and to the schedule
- add new users
- remove users
- modify and correct the pigging history
- create debris reports which trend type and amount of debris collected within specific timeframes

## Wireframes
![Wireframe _User Login](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_login.png)

![Wireframe _Reset Password](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_reset_password.png)

![Wireframe _Create Account](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_create_account.png)

![Wireframe _Account Info](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_account_info.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Input Pigging](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_input_pigging.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_operator_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _Operator Previous Launch ](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_operator_prev_launch.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Admin Menu](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_admin_menu.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Previous Launch](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_prev_launch.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Debris Reports](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_debris_reports.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging Activity](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_activity.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Pigging History](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_pigging_history.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update History](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_history.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Add Pipeline](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_add_pipeline.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update Pipeline](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_pipeline.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Add User](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_add_user.png)

![Wireframe _Foreman Update User](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_foreman_update_user.png)

![Wireframe _View Only Pigging Schedule](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_viewonly_pigging_schedule.png)

![Wireframe _View Only Debris Reports](https://github.com/KSherrell/pipeline-pigging-ops-fullstack-capstone-project/blob/master/public/imgs/wireframes/wireframes_viewonly_debris_reports.png)

## Notes

The priorities of the design of this application were:
1. use by the Pipeline Operators
2. use by the Pipeline Foreman
3. use by Users logging in
4. use by New Users ceating accounts
5. use by the Report Viewers

The Pipeline Operators and Foremen will access the application utilizing an iPhone 6 or later using Chrome or Safari as the web browsers.


## Future Fixes

* A third type of user will be created, "Report Viewer", who will have access to the Pigging Schedule and the Debris Report.

* Admin pages "Debris Report", "Pigging Activity", and "View Pigging History" will be created.
